TARGET_DECK: Adv Management::1 Project management

---

START_CARD
Basic

Define active and passive attack

Back: 
- Active attack – an attempt to alter system resources or operation
- Passive attack – an attempt to learn or use information – there is no impact on system resources

END_CARD


--------

START_CARD
Basic

What are the 3 cyber sec system failure states.

Back: 
1. Corrupted (Integrity) – it does the wrong thing or gives the wrong answers, this includes the improper modification of data
2. Leaky (Confidentiality) – someone has access to data that they should not
3. Unavailable (Availability) – using the system is slow or impractical

END_CARD



--------

START_CARD
Basic

Define the 4 cyber sec definitions for attack consequences.

Back: 
1. Unauthorised disclosure – access to data not authorised for
2. Deception – an authorised entity receives false data
3. Disruption – preventing the correct operation of system or services
4. Usurpation – control of the system by an unauthorised
entity

END_CARD



--------

START_CARD
Basic

State 10 cyber security functional requirements.

Back: 
1. Access control – limiting access to authorised users
2. Awareness & training – risk awareness and technical training
3. Audit & accountability – maintain records to monitor and investigate unauthorised or inappropriate activity
4. Certification & accreditation – assess security controls and plan for their improvement
5. Configuration management – maintaining baseline configurations and inventories
6. Contingency planning – establish and maintain plans for emergency response
7. Identification and authentication – identify users as a prerequisite to granting access
8. Incident response – establish an incident handling capability – track, document and report incidents
9. Maintenance – periodic and timely maintenance
10. Media protection – protect paper and digital media including limiting access, sanitising or destroy media
11. Physical & environmental protection – protection for physical infrastructure against environmental hazards
12. Planning – develop, document and update security plans
13. Personnel security – ensuring individuals in positions of responsibility are trustworthy – ensuring systems are secure after terminations or transfers – formal sanctions for those not following process
14. Risk assessment – periodically assess risk to operations
15. Systems & services acquisition – ensure third party providers provide adequate security measures
16. System & comms protection – monitor, control and protect communications
17. System & information integrity – identify, report & correct information and system flaws, provide protection from malicious code

END_CARD



--------

START_CARD
Basic

State 4 types of malware

Back: 
- Adware – generates advertising pop-ups
- Keyloggers – captures keystrokes
- Spammer programs – used to send large volumes of email
- Spyware – collects information and transmits it elsewhere
- Zombie/bot – program activated to launch attacks
- Virus – when executed attempts to replicate itself
- Worm – runs independently and propagates itself onto networked machines
- Trojan horse – hidden function within seemingly useful software

END_CARD


